# PS: History &#x1f6a7;

In this post, we'll take a look at command history in PowerShell.

PowerShell by default saves 4096 (2&#x00b9;&#x00b2;) of the last commands executed in global history, and is accessible using `(Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath`. To increase this number, use the `-MaximumHistoryCount` option:
```powershell
Set-PSReadlineOption -MaximumHistoryCount 10000
```
__Local History (Current Session)__

The common history cmdlets are:
```
PS> man *-history | fl

Name                              Category  Module                    Synopsis
----                              --------  ------                    --------
Add-History                       Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Appends entries to the session history.
Clear-History                     Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Deletes entries from the PowerShell session command history.
Get-History                       Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Gets a list of the commands entered during the current session.
Invoke-History                    Cmdlet    Microsoft.PowerShell.Core Runs commands from the session history.
```
Note that these are limited to the current session only.

When working with history, you'd mostly like to re-run some commands. You can do this with the Up/Down arrow keys. (In Vi-mode, use j/k in Command-mode).

Above history cmdlets are useful when:
- You've had a long session, and it's easier to lookup the whole command-history rather than iterate through each issued command.
- You've had a long session, and want to maintain a record of all issued commands.
- You've had a long session, and want to import all these commands into a new session.
- You want to do something with your command history, like lookup when a certain command was issued, how long it ran for, etc.

The next obvious thing is to see how to export/import your session history.

__Export/Import History__

You can export/import command-history to/from an XML file.
```powershell
Get-History | Export-CliXml $HOME/cmd-history.xml
Add-History (Import-CliXml $HOME/cmd-history.xml)
```
In addition to the Up/Down arrow keys, you can access history using keywords. This is the classic Find Backward/Forward option, accessible using `Ctrl+R` by default. Since these shortcuts are handled by PSReadLine, it's best to check for all history-related keybindings that PSReadLine currently offers:
```powershell
Get-PSReadLineKeyHandler | where {$_.Function -like '*hist*'}
```
With Vi-Mode enabled, instead of `Ctrl+R` you can use `/cmdlet` to lookup past commands issued with the keyword "cmdlet" in them (Use n/N to navigate the list like you would in Vim).

# References

- [woshub.com](http://woshub.com/powershell-commands-history/)

